Added lab for dynamic references (#146)
aws-samples/cfn101-workshop: workshop/content/intermediate/templates/dynamic-references/_index.md

---
title: 'Dynamic References'
date: 2022-02-02T20:33:04Z
weight: 300
---

### Overview

In this module, you will learn how to use [dynamic references](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/dynamic-references.html) in your CloudFormation template to reference external values stored in other AWS services such as [AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html)  (SSM) and [AWS Secrets Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/intro.html).

When you organize your AWS resources based on lifecycle and ownership, you might want to build a stack that references configuration values that are central to multiple stacks. The AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store provides secure, hierarchical storage for configuration data management.

> In other cases, you might be required to reference sensitive information in your AWS CloudFormation templates. [AWS Secrets Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/intro.html) helps you to securely encrypt, store, and retrieve credentials for your databases and other services programmatically.

Author: SSM Secure is one of the supported string types in Systems Manager Parameter Store. I'm not sure if this would be the right place to discuss about a distinct string type.

> In other cases, you might be required to reference sensitive information in your AWS CloudFormation templates. [AWS Secrets Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/intro.html) helps you to securely encrypt, store, and retrieve credentials for your databases and other services programmatically.

Reviewer: I have added a suggestion - please have a look!  Thanks!

    7. On the **Review** page for your stack, scroll down to the bottom, and choose **Create stack**.
    8. You can view the progress of stack being created in the CloudFormation Console, by refreshing the stack creation page.
    9. Refresh the page until you see the `CREATE_COMPLETE` status for your stack.

{{% notice note %}}
You can also use dynamic references to an SSM parameter to point a specific parameter version. For example, to have CloudFormation resolve version `1` of your parameter, you use: `ImageId: '{{resolve:ssm:/golden-images/amazon-linux-2:1}}'`. When you lock a dynamic reference to a specific version, this helps preventing unintentional updates to your resource when you update your stack.
{{% /notice %}}

5. Verify that the ID of the image you used for your EC2 instance matches the image ID you stored in the SSM parameter. First, locate the EC2 Instance ID by navigating to the **Resources** tab in the CloudFormation Console: look for the Physical ID of your EC2 Instance, and note its value. Next, run the following command (replace the `INSTANCE_ID` placeholder before you run the command):

> Verify that the Lambda Function created uses the Role specified in the AWS Systems Manager parameter using the following command:

Author: Resolved in Commit [37dfdae](https://github.com/aws-samples/cfn101-workshop/pull/146/commits/37dfdaecee766400fb7ff1a2aba1222c06a22e32)

```
aws ec2 describe-instances --instance-ids INSTANCE_ID \

>                            --query 'Reservations[0].Instances[0].ImageId'

Author: Resolved in Commit [37dfdae](https://github.com/aws-samples/cfn101-workshop/pull/146/commits/37dfdaecee766400fb7ff1a2aba1222c06a22e32)

    7. For `DBPassword`, specify the password for the primary user.
    8. Choose to use default values for **Configure stack options**, and choose **Next**.
    9. On the **Review** page for your stack, scroll down to the bottom, and choose **Create stack**.
    10. You can view the progress of stack being created in the CloudFormation Console, by refreshing the stack creation page.
    11. Refresh the page until you see the `CREATE_COMPLETE` status for your stack.

3. Next, you will create an AWS Lambda Function, and pass database connection parameters as [Environment Variables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-envvars.html) to a Lambda function, by using dynamic references to the AWS Secrets Manager secret created earlier.
    1. Make sure you are in the `code/workspace/dynamic-references` directory.
    2. Open the `lambda_function.yaml` CloudFormation template in your favorite text editor.
    3. The template describes an `AWS::Lambda::Function` resource type; update the template by appending the `Properties` section with the `Environment` property, with variables using dynamic references to the AWS Secret Manager secret you created earlier:

> ```yaml

Reviewer: - Please remove `!Sub` occurrences, as those are not needed here.
- Please remove credential references from environment variables (lines starting with `RDS_USERNAME` and `RDS_PASSWORD`) as recommended to increase database security (reference: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-envvars.html).

{{% /notice %}}

5. When you invoke the example Lambda function you created, the function fetches `RDS_HOSTNAME` and `RDS_PORT` environment variables, and prints out their values. First, locate the Lambda function name by navigating to the **Resources** tab in the CloudFormation Console: look for the Physical ID of your Lambda function, and note its value. Next, verify you are passing database connection parameters to your Lambda function by invoking it with the following command (replace `FUNCTION_NAME` with your Lambda function name):

```shell

> aws lambda invoke --function-name FUNCTION_NAME /dev/stdout

Author: Resolved in [37dfdae](https://github.com/aws-samples/cfn101-workshop/pull/146/commits/37dfdaecee766400fb7ff1a2aba1222c06a22e32)

```yaml
  HelloWorldFunction:
    Type: AWS::Lambda::Function
    Properties:
      Role: !GetAtt FunctionExecutionRole.Arn
      Handler: index.handler
      Runtime: python3.7
      MemorySize: '{{resolve:ssm:/lambda/memory-size:1}}'
      Code:
        ZipFile: |
          import os

          def handler(event, context):
              return "Hello World!"
```

You can find the full solution at `code/solutions/dynamic-references/lambda_memory_size.yaml` example template.

{{% /expand %}}

### Cleanup

1. In the CloudFormation console, select the stack you have created in this lab. For example: `cfn-workshop-ec2-stack`.
2. Choose **Delete** to delete the stack, and then choose **Delete stack** to confirm.
3. Repeat steps above for stacks you created with this lab, for example: `cfn-workshop-database-stack`, `cfn-workshop-lambda-stack`.
4. Delete the SSM parameters you created to store the AMI ID and `MemorySize` configuration using the following command:

```yaml
aws ssm delete-parameters --names "/golden-images/amazon-linux-2" \
                                  "/lambda/memory-size"
```

> 

Reviewer: Also, please add instructions on deleting CloudWatch Logs resource(s) created with this lab.

    Properties:
      Role: !GetAtt FunctionExecutionRole.Arn
      Handler: index.handler
      Runtime: python3.7
      MemorySize: '{{resolve:ssm:/lambda/memory-size:1}}'
      Code:
        ZipFile: |
          import os

          def handler(event, context):
              return "Hello World!"
```

Create a CloudFormation stack to provision resources you described and updated in the template.

You can find the full solution in the `code/solutions/dynamic-references/lambda_memory_size.yaml` example template.

{{% /expand %}}

### Cleanup

1. In the CloudFormation console, select the stack you have created in this lab. For example: `cfn-workshop-ec2-stack`.
2. Choose **Delete** to delete the stack, and then choose **Delete stack** to confirm.
3. Repeat steps above for stacks you created with this lab, for example: `cfn-workshop-database-stack`, `cfn-workshop-lambda-stack`, and the stack you created as part of the challenge section: `cfn-workshop-lambda-memory-size`.
4. Delete the two Parameter Store parameters you created to store the AMI ID and `MemorySize` configuration using the following command:

```yaml
aws ssm delete-parameters --names "/golden-images/amazon-linux-2" \

>                                   "/lambda/memory-size"

Author: Resolved in Commit [37dfdae](https://github.com/aws-samples/cfn101-workshop/pull/146/commits/37dfdaecee766400fb7ff1a2aba1222c06a22e32)

>                                   "/lambda/memory-size"

Author: Resolved in Commit [37dfdae](https://github.com/aws-samples/cfn101-workshop/pull/146/commits/37dfdaecee766400fb7ff1a2aba1222c06a22e32)

---
title: 'Dynamic References'
date: 2022-02-02T20:33:04Z
weight: 300
---

### Overview

In this module, you will learn how to use [dynamic references](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/dynamic-references.html) in your CloudFormation template to reference external values stored in AWS services that include [AWS Systems Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/what-is-systems-manager.html) (formerly known as SSM) [Parameter Store](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html), and [AWS Secrets Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/intro.html).

As you describe, in your CloudFormation templates, AWS resources by taking into account [lifecycle and ownership](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html) criteria and best practices, you might also want to reference configuration values stored in a centralized place. Parameter Store provides secure, hierarchical storage for configuration data management.

> In other cases, you might be required to reference sensitive information in your AWS CloudFormation templates. [AWS Secrets Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/intro.html) helps you to securely encrypt, store, and retrieve credentials for your databases and other services programmatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In other cases, you might be required to reference sensitive information in your AWS CloudFormation templates. [AWS Secrets Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/intro.html) helps you to securely encrypt, store, and retrieve credentials for your databases and other services programmatically. You can also choose to use Parameter Store [secure string parameters](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/dynamic-references.html#dynamic-references-ssm-secure-strings) to store and reference sensitive data.
```

After you (or a team in your organization) builds a custom AMI, you can choose to use Parameter Store to store the identifier of the AMI. This makes it easier for you to programmatically point to an AMI you wish to use when you launch EC2 instances, thus reducing the likelihood of configuration mistakes.

In this lab, you will create a Parameter Store parameter to persist an AMI ID: instead of a custom AMI, you will use the latest _Amazon Linux 2 AMI, 64-bit x86_ available in a region of your choice. You will then reference your parameter in the `ImageId` [property](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-properties-ec2-instance.html#cfn-ec2-instance-imageid) of an EC2 instance that you describe in a template.

Let’s get started! Choose to follow steps shown next:

1. Navigate to the the Amazon EC2 [Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:), and [choose the Region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awsconsolehelpdocs/latest/gsg/select-region.html) you wish to use. Next, locate the latest *Amazon Linux 2 AMI, (64-bit x86)*, and note the AMI ID (e.g., `ami-abcd1234`). You will use this value in the next step.

> ![ec2](dynamic-references/ec2-console-ami-picker.png)

Author: Although this is what I thought about initially. I'm not inclined to guiding the customer to fetch the AMI ID using the CLI because the tutorial is about using Dynamic References for SSM and if I were to ask the customer to retrieve a value from SSM using the CLI it would be counter-intuitive to the benefits of using dynamic references. Please let me know what you think about this ?

> ![ec2](dynamic-references/ec2-console-ami-picker.png)

Reviewer 2: Fair enough. This was just a small suggestion, so the customers don't need to use multiple steps to get `ami-id` and not to jump between console and terminal.  But your way is absolutely valid so we can leave it a sit is.

```shell
$ aws ssm put-parameter --name "/golden-images/amazon-linux-2" \
                        --value "YOUR_AMI_ID" \
                        --type "String" \
                        --region "YOUR_REGION"
```
{{% notice note %}}
You can choose to create Parameter Store parameters of the type `String` or `StringList` using CloudFormation. For more details, check the documentation for [AWS::SSM::Parameter](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ssm-parameter.html).
{{% /notice %}}

3. Follow steps shown next to create a dynamic reference to your parameter in an EC2 instance you describe in a template:

    1. change directory to `code/workspace/dynamic-references`.
    2. Open the `ec2_instance.yaml` CloudFormation template in your favorite text editor.
    3. Locate the `AWS::EC2::Instance` resource type block in the template; update the template by appending, to properties in the `Properties` section, the `ImageId` property and a dynamic reference to your parameter:

```yaml
      ImageId: '{{resolve:ssm:/golden-images/amazon-linux-2}}'

> ```

Author: Resolved in `eb787cf`

```

Congratulations! You learned how to use dynamic references with an example using Parameter Store.

#### Dynamic References for AWS Secrets Manager

[AWS Secrets Manager](https://aws.amazon.com/secrets-manager) helps you secure your credentials, such as database credentials for example, so that you can consume them later programmatically without hard-coding secrets in your code. For example, you create an [AWS Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/) function to consume your database connection information, such as hostname and port, for your [Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS)](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/) database instance.

In this lab, you will use Secrets Manager to store database *hostname*, *port*, *username*, and *password*. Next, you will use dynamic references to read *hostname* and *port* information from an `AWS::Lambda::Function` resource you will describe in a template.

Let’s get started! Choose to follow steps shown next:

1. First, you will create an Amazon RDS database, and store connection information as a secret in AWS Secrets Manager:
    1. Make sure you are in the `code/workspace/dynamic-references` directory.

>     2. Open the `database.yaml` CloudFormation template in your favorite text editor.

Author: The `database.yaml` doesn't require any changes by the user. Did you still want me to create a copy of the file in the `solutions` folder ?

    2. In **Prepare template**, select **Template is ready**.
    3. In **Template source**, select **Upload a template file**.
    4. Choose the file `database.yaml`.
    5. Enter a Stack name. For example, `cfn-workshop-database-stack`.
    6. For `DBUsername`, specify the primary user name for the DB instance.
    7. For `DBPassword`, specify the password for the primary user.
    8. Choose to use default values for **Configure stack options**, and choose **Next**.
    9. On the **Review** page for your stack, scroll down to the bottom, and choose **Create stack**.
    10. You can view the progress of stack being created in the CloudFormation Console, by refreshing the stack creation page.
    11. Refresh the page until you see the `CREATE_COMPLETE` status for your stack.

3. Next, you will create an AWS Lambda Function, and read a number of database connection parameters as [Environment Variables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-envvars.html) to your Lambda function, by using dynamic references to the Secrets Manager secret you created earlier.
    1. Make sure you are in the `code/workspace/dynamic-references` directory.

>     2. Open the `lambda_function.yaml` CloudFormation template in your favorite text editor.

Author: Resolved in `eb787cf`

{{% /notice %}}

5. When you invoke the example Lambda function you created, the function fetches `RDS_HOSTNAME` and `RDS_PORT` environment variables, and prints out their values. First, locate the Lambda function name by navigating to the **Resources** tab in the CloudFormation Console: look for the Physical ID of your Lambda function, and note its value. Next, verify you are passing database connection parameters to your Lambda function by invoking it with the following command (replace `YOUR_FUNCTION_NAME` with your Lambda function name and `YOUR_REGION` with the value you need):

```shell
$ aws lambda invoke --function-name YOUR_FUNCTION_NAME \
                    --region YOUR_REGION \
                    output.json
```

Print the output for the above command using the following command:

```shell
$ cat output.json

> "Attempting to connect to database db.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com:3306"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Database: db.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com:3306"
```

```

Congratulations! You learned how to use dynamic references with AWS Secrets Manager.

### Challenge

In this exercise, you will reinforce your understanding of *dynamic references.*

> AWS Lambda supports specifying memory configuration for a [function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-lambda-function.html) with the `MemorySize` [property](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-lambda-function.html#cfn-lambda-function-memorysize). Your task is to create a Parameter Store parameter with the AWS CLI, where you set the memory size to use for a Lambda function that you will describe in the `lambda_memory_size.yaml` template. You will then create a dynamic reference to version `1` of the parameter you created, and verify what you built works by creating a stack with your template: call the stack `cfn-workshop-lambda-memory-size`. Make sure you create your Parameter Store parameter in the same AWS region you choose to create your stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AWS Lambda supports specifying memory configuration for a [function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-lambda-function.html) with the `MemorySize` [property](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-lambda-function.html#cfn-lambda-function-memorysize). Your task is to create a Parameter Store parameter with the AWS CLI, where you set the memory size to use for a Lambda function that you will describe in the `lambda_memory_size.yaml` template. You will then create a dynamic reference to version `1` of the parameter you created, and verify what you built works by creating a stack with your template: call the stack `cfn-workshop-lambda-memory-size-stack`. Make sure you create your Parameter Store parameter in the same AWS region you choose to create your stack.
```

{{%expand "Need a hint?" %}}

* Review the CloudFormation [User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-lambda-function.html#cfn-lambda-function-memorysize) to understand how to specify the `MemorySize` configuration for a Lambda Function.
* Review the CloudFormation [User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/dynamic-references.html#dynamic-references-ssm-pattern) for help with constructing a dynamic reference string to a specific version of a Parameter Store parameter.

{{% /expand %}}

{{%expand "Want to see the solution?" %}}

* Create a Parameter Store parameter specifying your required memory configuration using the following command (the example uses the `us-east-1` region - update this value accordingly):

```shell
$ aws ssm put-parameter --name "/lambda/memory-size" \
                        --value "256" \
                        --type "String" \
                        --region "us-east-1"
```

> * Navigate to the `code/workspace/dynamic-references` directory. Update the template by appending the `Properties` section with the `MemorySize` property using a dynamic reference to the parameter as such:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Open the `code/workspace/dynamic-references/lambda_memory_size.yaml` template in your favorite text editor. Update the template by appending, to the `Resources` section, the example below that include the `MemorySize` property using a dynamic reference to the parameter:
```

```yaml
  HelloWorldFunction:
    Type: AWS::Lambda::Function
    Properties:
      Role: !GetAtt FunctionExecutionRole.Arn
      Handler: index.handler
      Runtime: python3.7
      MemorySize: '{{resolve:ssm:/lambda/memory-size:1}}'
      Code:
        ZipFile: |
          import os

          def handler(event, context):
              return "Hello World!"
```

> Create a CloudFormation stack to provision resources you described and updated in the template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `cfn-workshop-lambda-memory-size` CloudFormation stack to provision resources you described and updated in the template.
```

> Create a `cfn-workshop-lambda-memory-size` CloudFormation stack to provision resources you described and updated in the template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `cfn-workshop-lambda-memory-size-stack` CloudFormation stack to provision resources you described and updated in the template.
```

You can find the full solution in the `code/solutions/dynamic-references/lambda_memory_size.yaml` example template.

{{% /expand %}}

### Cleanup

1. Delete the CloudWatch log groups associated with the Lambda functions you created as a part of the `cfn-workshop-lambda-stack`, and the stack you created as part of the challenge section: `cfn-workshop-lambda-memory-size`. To do this, for each of the stack, locate the Lambda function name by navigating to the **Resources** tab in the CloudFormation Console look for the Physical ID of your Lambda function, and note its value. Then, use the following AWS CLI command for each of the you lambda functions have created (replace `YOUR_FUNCTION_NAME` with your Lambda function name and `YOUR_REGION` with the value you need):

```shell

> aws logs delete-log-group --log-group-name /aws/lambda/YOUR_FUNCTION_NAME \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ aws logs delete-log-group --log-group-name /aws/lambda/YOUR_FUNCTION_NAME \
```

                          --region YOUR_REGION
```
2. Delete the two Parameter Store parameters you created to store the AMI ID and `MemorySize` configuration using the following command (replace `YOUR_REGION` with the value you need):

```shell

> aws ssm delete-parameters --names "/golden-images/amazon-linux-2" "/lambda/memory-size" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ aws ssm delete-parameters --names "/golden-images/amazon-linux-2" "/lambda/memory-size" \
```

> 1. Delete CloudWatch Log Groups associated with Lambda functions you created with the `cfn-workshop-lambda-stack`, and with the `cfn-workshop-lambda-memory-size` (if you invoked the Lambda function for the challenge section, you should have a relevant Log Group present). For each of the stacks, locate the Lambda function name by navigating to the **Resources** tab in the CloudFormation Console; look for the Physical ID of your Lambda function, and note its value. Then, use the following command for each of the Lambda functions you have created (replace `YOUR_FUNCTION_NAME` with your Lambda function name, and `YOUR_REGION` with the value you need):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Delete CloudWatch Log Groups associated with Lambda functions you created with `cfn-workshop-lambda-stack`, and with `cfn-workshop-lambda-memory-size-stack` (if you invoked the Lambda function for the challenge section, you should have a relevant Log Group present). For each of the stacks, locate the Lambda function name by navigating to the **Resources** tab in the CloudFormation Console; look for the Physical ID of your Lambda function, and note its value. Then, use the following command for each of the Lambda functions you have created (replace `YOUR_FUNCTION_NAME` with your Lambda function name, and `YOUR_REGION` with the value you need):
```

                            --region YOUR_REGION
```

> 3. Next, In the CloudFormation console, select the stack you have created in this lab. For example: `cfn-workshop-ec2-stack`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Next, in the CloudFormation console, select the stack you created last, for example: `cfn-workshop-lambda-memory-size`.
```

> 3. Next, in the CloudFormation console, select the stack you created last, for example: `cfn-workshop-lambda-memory-size`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Next, in the CloudFormation console, select the stack you created last, for example: `cfn-workshop-lambda-memory-size-stack`.
```

4. Choose **Delete** to delete the stack, and then choose **Delete stack** to confirm.

> 5. Repeat steps above for stacks you created with this lab, for example: `cfn-workshop-database-stack`, `cfn-workshop-lambda-stack`, and the stack you created as part of the challenge section: `cfn-workshop-lambda-memory-size`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Repeat steps above for other stacks you created with this lab, for example: `cfn-workshop-lambda-stack`, then `cfn-workshop-database-stack`, and `cfn-workshop-ec2-stack`.
```
